New blog post: building an AI WebTV (#1304)
huggingface/blog: ai-webtv.md

Other spaces deployed by the community can also be found if you [search for Zeroscope on the Hub](https://huggingface.co/spaces?search=zeroscope).

👉  Public Spaces may become overcrowded and paused at any time. If you intend to deploy your own system, please duplicate those Spaces and run them under your own account.

## Using a model hosted on a Space

Spaces based on Gradio have the ability to [expose a REST API](https://www.gradio.app/guides/sharing-your-app#api-page), which can then be call from Node using the [@gradio/client module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gradio/client).

Here is an example:

```typescript
import { client } from "@gradio/client"

export const generateVideo = async (prompt: string) => {
  const api = await client("*** URL OF THE SPACE ***")

  // call the "run()" function with an array of parameters
  const { data } = await api.predict("/run", [		
    prompt,
    42,	// seed	
    24, // nbFrames
    35 // nbSteps
  ])
  
  const { orig_name } = data[0][0]

  const remoteUrl = `${instance}/file=${orig_name}`

  // the file can then be downloaded and stored locally
}
```

## Post-processing

> Once an individual take (a video clip) is upscaled, it is then passed to FILM, a frame interpolation algorithm:

Author: ```suggestion
Once an individual take (a video clip) is upscaled, it is then passed to FILM (Frame Interpolation for Large Motion), a frame interpolation algorithm:
```

  -c:v libx264 -preset veryfast -tune zerolatency \
  -shortest \
  -f flv rtmp://<SERVER>
```

There are many different configuration options for FFmpeg, for more information in the [official documentation](http://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/StreamingGuide).

For the RTMP server, you can find [open-source implementations on GitHub](https://github.com/topics/rtmp-server), such as the [NGINX-RTMP module](https://github.com/arut/nginx-rtmp-module).

The AI WebTV itself uses [node-media-server](https://github.com/illuspas/Node-Media-Server).

💡 You can also directly stream to [one of the Twitch RTMP entrypoints](https://help.twitch.tv/s/twitch-ingest-recommendation?language=en_US). Checkout the Twitch documentation for more details.

# Observations and examples

Here are some examples of the generated content.

The first thing we notice is that applying the second pass of Zeroscope XL definitely improves the quality of the image. The impact of frame interpolation is also clearly visible.

## Characters and scene composition

<figure class="image flex items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
   <video
      alt="demo4.mp4"
      autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
    >

>     <source src=https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/demo4.mp4" type="video/mp4">

Author: ```suggestion
    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/demo4.mp4" type="video/mp4">
```

  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>3D rendered animation showing a group of food characters <strong>forming a pyramid</strong>, with a <strong>banana</strong> standing triumphantly on top. In a city with <strong>cotton candy clouds</strong> and <strong>chocolate road</strong>, Pixar's style, CGI, ambient lighting, direct sunlight, rich color scheme, ultra realistic, cinematic, photorealistic.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="image flex items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
   <video
      alt="demo7.mp4"
      autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
    >
    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/demo7.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Intimate <strong>close-up of a red fox, gazing into the camera with sharp eyes</strong>, ambient lighting creating a high contrast silhouette, IMAX camera, <strong>high detail</strong>, <strong>cinematic effect</strong>, golden hour, film grain.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Simulation of dynamic scenes

Something truly fascinating about text-to-video models is their ability to emulate real-life phenomenons on which they have been trained on.

> We’ve witnessed it with large language models and their ability to synthetize convincing content that mimics human responses, but this takes a a whole new dimension when applied to video.

Author: ```suggestion
We’ve witnessed it with large language models and their ability to synthetize convincing content that mimics human responses, but this takes it to whole new dimension when applied to video.
```

> We’ve witnessed it with large language models and their ability to synthetize convincing content that mimics human responses, but this takes a a whole new dimension when applied to video.

Author: ```suggestion
We’ve witnessed it with large language models and their ability to synthetize convincing content that mimics human responses, but this takes a whole new dimension when applied to video.
```

> Text-to-video models have to synthesize animated sequences, and consequently try to emulate and simulate all the physics and entity behaviors we see in the scene. This works well when asking a realistic content, but that can also work with unseen scenes as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Text-to-video models have to synthesize animated sequences, and consequently try to emulate and simulate all the physics and entity behaviors we see in the scene. This works well when asking for realistic content, but it can work with unseen scenes as well.
```

> Text-to-video models have to synthesize animated sequences, and consequently try to emulate and simulate all the physics and entity behaviors we see in the scene. This works well when asking a realistic content, but that can also work with unseen scenes as well.

Author: perhaps "Text-to-video model can render complex scenes, and in doing so appear to have learned some of the physics and rules needed to simulate the world."

or maybe this is still too anthropomorphic?

What I want to convey is that we seem to observe an emergent behavior, as the video model (similar to how stable diffusion has learned how light reflection and refraction) learned a basic understanding of how waves or animals behave, what is "exploding", "bouncing", "walking on a surface" etc.. (future models will probably be even better at this

but I'm not an expert of this topic at all, so perhaps there is a better way to phrase this

> Text-to-video models have to synthesize animated sequences, and consequently try to emulate and simulate all the physics and entity behaviors we see in the scene. This works well when asking a realistic content, but that can also work with unseen scenes as well.

Author: I've changed the text to:

```
## Simulation of dynamic scenes

Something truly fascinating about text-to-video models is their ability to emulate real-life phenomena they have been trained on.

We've seen it with large language models and their ability to synthesize convincing content that mimics human responses, but this takes things to a whole new dimension when applied to video.

A video model predicts the next frames of a scene, which might include objects in motion such as fluids, people, animals, or vehicles. Today, this emulation isn't perfect, but it will be interesting to evaluate future models (trained on larger or specialized datasets, such as animal locomotion) for their accuracy when reproducing physical phenomena, and also their ability to simulate the behavior of agents.
```

    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/demo2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>Prompt: <i><strong>Cinematic movie</strong>, shot of an astronaut and a llama at dawn, the mountain landscape bathed in <strong>soft muted colors</strong>, early morning fog, dew glistening on fur, craggy peaks, vintage NASA suit, Canon EOS, high detailed skin, epic composition, high quality, 4K, trending on artstation, beautiful</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="image flex items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
   <video
      alt="demo1.mp4"
      autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
    >
    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/demo1.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Panda and black cat <strong>navigating down the flowing river</strong> in a small boat, Studio Ghibli style &gt; Cinematic, beautiful composition &gt; IMAX <strong>camera panning following the boat</strong> &gt; High quality, cinematic, movie, mist effect, film grain, trending on Artstation</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

## Failure cases

> **Wrong direction:** the model sometimes have trouble with movement and direction. For instance here the seems to be played in reverse. Also the modifier keyword ***green*** was not taken into account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Wrong direction:** the model sometimes has trouble with movement and direction. For instance, here it seems to be played in reverse. Also the modifier keyword ***green*** was not taken into account.
```

Author: done

> **Wrong direction:** the model sometimes have trouble with movement and direction. For instance here the seems to be played in reverse. Also the modifier keyword ***green*** was not taken into account.

Author: ```suggestion
**Wrong direction:** the model sometimes has trouble with movement and direction. For instance here the clip seems to be played in reverse. Also the modifier keyword ***green*** was not taken into account.
```

<figure class="image flex items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
   <video
      alt="fail1.mp4"
      autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
    >
    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/fail1.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>

>   <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Movie showing a <strong>green pumpkin</strong> falling into a bed of nails, slow-mo explosion with chunks flying all over, ambient fog adding to the dramatic lighting, filmed with IMAX camera, 8k ultra high dhefinition, high quality, trending on artstation.</i>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Movie showing a <strong>green pumpkin</strong> falling into a bed of nails, slow-mo explosion with chunks flying all over, ambient fog adding to the dramatic lighting, filmed with IMAX camera, 8k ultra high definition, high quality, trending on artstation.</i>
```

</figcaption>
</figure>

**Rendering errors on realistic scenes:** sometimes we can see artifacts such as moving vertical lines or waves. The cause is unclear yet, this might be caused by the combination of keywords used.

<figure class="image flex items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
   <video
      alt="fail2.mp4"
      autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
    >
    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/fail2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Film shot of a captivating flight above the Grand Canyon, ledges and plateaus etched in orange and red. <strong>Deep shadows contrast</strong> with the fiery landscape under the midday sun, shot with DJI Phantom 4 Pro. The camera rotates to capture the vastness, <strong>textures</strong> and colors, in imax quality. Film <strong>grain</strong>, cinematic, movie.</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

> **Text inserted into the image:** the model sometimes inject words form the prompt into the scene, such as “imax”. Here we can notice that word "llama" seems to be present twice in the image, in the form of burning words.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Text inserted into the image:** the model sometimes injects words from the prompt into the scene, such as “imax”. Here we can notice that word "llama" seems to be present twice in the image, in the form of burning words.
```

Author: ah sorry I was editing this one at the same time and I didn't see your comment!

Author: done

> **Text inserted into the image:** the model sometimes inject words form the prompt into the scene, such as “imax”. Here we can notice that word "llama" seems to be present twice in the image, in the form of burning words.

Author: ```suggestion
**Text or objects inserted into the image:** the model sometimes inject words from the prompt into the scene, such as “imax”. Adding "Canon EOS" or "Drone footage" in the prompt might also make those objects appear in the video. Here we can notice that word "llama" seems to be present twice in the image, in the form of burning words.
```

## Maintaining consistency between scenes

If you plan to create sequences of multiple videos, you will want to make sure you add as much details possible in each prompt, otherwise you may lose important details from one sequence to another, such as the color.

💡 This will also improve the quality of the image since the prompt is used for the upscaling part with Zeroscope XL.

## Leverage the frame interpolation

Frame interpolation is a powerful tool which can repair small rendering errors and turn many defects into features, especially in scenes with a lot of animation, or where a cartoon effect is acceptable. The [FILM algorithm](https://film-net.github.io/) will smoothen out elements of a frame with previous and following events in the video clip.

This works great to displace the background when the camera is panning or rotating, and will also give you creative freedom, such as control over the number of frames after the generation, to make slow-motion effects.

> # To go further

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Future work
```

  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>3D rendered animation showing a group of food characters <strong>forming a pyramid</strong>, with a <strong>banana</strong> standing triumphantly on top. In a city with <strong>cotton candy clouds</strong> and <strong>chocolate road</strong>, Pixar's style, CGI, ambient lighting, direct sunlight, rich color scheme, ultra realistic, cinematic, photorealistic.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="image flex items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
   <video
      alt="demo7.mp4"
      autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
    >
    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/demo7.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Intimate <strong>close-up of a red fox, gazing into the camera with sharp eyes</strong>, ambient lighting creating a high contrast silhouette, IMAX camera, <strong>high detail</strong>, <strong>cinematic effect</strong>, golden hour, film grain.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Simulation of dynamic scenes

Something truly fascinating about text-to-video models is their ability to emulate real-life phenomenons on which they have been trained on.

> We’ve witnessed it with large language models and their ability to synthetize convincing content that mimics human responses, but this takes a whole new dimension when applied to video.

Author: To apply back the comment from @xenova

```suggestion
We’ve witnessed it with large language models and their ability to synthesize convincing content that mimics human responses, but this takes a whole new dimension when applied to video.
```

  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Panda and black cat <strong>navigating down the flowing river</strong> in a small boat, Studio Ghibli style &gt; Cinematic, beautiful composition &gt; IMAX <strong>camera panning following the boat</strong> &gt; High quality, cinematic, movie, mist effect, film grain, trending on Artstation</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

## Failure cases

**Wrong direction:** the model sometimes has trouble with movement and direction. For instance, here the clip seems to be played in reverse. Also the modifier keyword ***green*** was not taken into account.

<figure class="image flex items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
   <video
      alt="fail1.mp4"
      autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
    >
    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/fail1.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Movie showing a <strong>green pumpkin</strong> falling into a bed of nails, slow-mo explosion with chunks flying all over, ambient fog adding to the dramatic lighting, filmed with IMAX camera, 8k ultra high definition, high quality, trending on artstation.</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

> **Rendering errors on realistic scenes:** sometimes we can see artifacts such as moving vertical lines or waves. The cause is unclear yet, this might be caused by the combination of keywords used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Rendering errors on realistic scenes:** sometimes we can see artifacts such as moving vertical lines or waves. It is unclear what causes this, but it may be due to the combination of keywords used.
```

In the following example, we notice the word "llama" inserts a llama but also two occurrences of the word llama in flames.

<figure class="image flex items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
   <video
      alt="fail3.mp4"
      autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
    >
    <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/156_ai_webtv/fail3.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption>Prompt: <i>Movie scene of a <strong>llama</strong> acting as a firefighter, in firefighter uniform, dramatically spraying water at <strong>roaring flames</strong>, amidst a chaotic urban scene, Canon EOS, ambient lighting, high quality, award winning, highly detailed fur, cinematic, trending on artstation.</i>
</figcaption>
</figure>

# Recommendations

Here are some early recommendations that can be made from the previous observations:

## Using video-specific prompt keywords

You may already know that if you don’t prompt a specific aspect of the image with Stable Diffusion, things like the color of clothes or the time of the day might become random, or be assigned a generic value such as a neutral mid-day light.

> The same is true for video models: you will want to be specific about things. Examples include camera and character movement, their orientation, speed and direction. You can leave it unspecified for creative purposes (idea generation), but this might not always give you the results you want (eg. entities animated in reverse).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same is true for video models: you will want to be specific about things. Examples include camera and character movement, their orientation, speed and direction. You can leave it unspecified for creative purposes (idea generation), but this might not always give you the results you want (e.g., entities animated in reverse).
```

## Maintaining consistency between scenes

> If you plan to create sequences of multiple videos, you will want to make sure you add as much details possible in each prompt, otherwise you may lose important details from one sequence to another, such as the color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan to create sequences of multiple videos, you will want to make sure you add as many details as possible in each prompt, otherwise you may lose important details from one sequence to another, such as the color.
```

💡 This will also improve the quality of the image since the prompt is used for the upscaling part with Zeroscope XL.

> ## Leverage the frame interpolation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Leverage frame interpolation
```

Frame interpolation is a powerful tool which can repair small rendering errors and turn many defects into features, especially in scenes with a lot of animation, or where a cartoon effect is acceptable. The [FILM algorithm](https://film-net.github.io/) will smoothen out elements of a frame with previous and following events in the video clip.

> This works great to displace the background when the camera is panning or rotating, and will also give you creative freedom, such as control over the number of frames after the generation, to make slow-motion effects.

Reviewer: Not a suggestion, but it could be interesting to incorporate this into the model itself - since I assume frames are generated auto-regressively.

# Future work

> We hope you enjoyed watching the AI WebTV stream and that it will inspire your to build more in this space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope you enjoyed watching the AI WebTV stream and that it will inspire you to build more in this space.
```

> As this was a first trial, a lot of things were not the focus of the tech demo: generating longer and more varied sequences, adding audio (sound effects, dialogue), generating and orchestrating complex scenarios, or letting a language model agent having more control over the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this was a first trial, a lot of things were not the focus of the tech demo: generating longer and more varied sequences, adding audio (sound effects, dialogue), generating and orchestrating complex scenarios, or letting a language model agent have more control over the pipeline.
```

> Some of those ideas may make their way in further updates to the AI WebTV, but we also can’t wait to see what the community of researchers, engineers and builders will come up with!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of these ideas may make their way into future updates to the AI WebTV, but we also can’t wait to see what the community of researchers, engineers and builders will come up with!
```
